SUMMARY.md, before:

# Table of contents

## Overview

- [📐 Angle Documentation Portal](README.md)
- [⚒ Developers](https://developers.angle.money)
- [📖 Whitepapers](whitepapers.md)
- [📒 Glossary](global-glossary.md)
- [🔗 Quick Links](links.md)
- [🖼 Stablecoins](stablecoins.md)
- [🎓 Guides](guides/README.md)
  - [🚶 First Steps in Crypto](guides/newbie.md)
  - [🧩 Use cases](guides/use-cases/README.md)
    - [💸 Pay and get paid with agEUR](guides/use-cases/ageur-power-usecase.md)
    - [🏦 agEUR as a treasury asset](guides/use-cases/ageur-treasury.md)
  - [📔 App Guides](guides/app-guides/README.md)
    - [💱 Swap](guides/app-guides/agEUR/swap.md)
    - [🏦 Borrow](guides/app-guides/agEUR/borrow.md)
    - [🌉 Bridge](guides/app-guides/agEUR/bridge.md)
    - [💳 On-ramp & off-ramp](guides/app-guides/agEUR/on-ramp-off-ramp.md)
    - [⚖️ Leverage](guides/app-guides/trade/leverage.md)
    - [🛡 Perpetuals](guides/app-guides/trade/perpetuals.md)
    - [🍀 Staking](guides/app-guides/earn/staking.md)
      - [🦄 Uniswap V3 incentive mechanism](guides/app-guides/earn/staking/univ3-lp.md)
    - [💰 Buy](guides/app-guides/ANGLE/buy.md)
    - [🔒 Lock](guides/app-guides/ANGLE/lock.md)
    - [🧪 Gauges](guides/app-guides/ANGLE/gauges-voting.md)
    - [🗳 Vote](guides/app-guides/ANGLE/snapshot-votes.md)
    - [🧮 App Formulas](guides/other/formulas.md)

## Angle Core Module

- [🔭 Angle Core Module Overview](core-module/overview.md)
- [💱 Stable Seekers and Holders](core-module/stable-seekers/README.md)
  - [FAQ - Stable Seekers and Holders](core-module/stable-seekers/faq-stable.md)
- [🛡 Hedging Agents](core-module/hedging-agents/README.md)
  - [FAQ - Hedging Agents](core-module/hedging-agents/faq-ha.md)
- [🍀 Standard Liquidity Providers](core-module/standard-liquidity-providers/README.md)
  - [FAQ - Standard Liquidity Providers](core-module/standard-liquidity-providers/faq-slps.md)
- [📈 Lending Strategies - Yield on Reserves](core-module/lending.md)
- [🔍 Other aspects](core-module/other-aspects/README.md)
  - [🏭 Keepers](core-module/other-aspects/keepers.md)
  - [🔱 Oracles](core-module/other-aspects/oracles.md)
  - [📊 Collateral Ratio](core-module/other-aspects/collateral-ratio.md)
  - [🚑 Risks and Emergency Modules](core-module/other-aspects/emergency-modules.md)
  - [⌛ Collateral Settlement](core-module/other-aspects/collateral-settlement.md)
- [📚 Glossary](core-module/glossary.md)
- [❓ FAQ](core-module/faq.md)

## Angle Borrowing Module

- [🔭 Borrowing Module Overview](borrowing-module/README.md)
- [🏦 Vaults](borrowing-module/vaults/README.md)
  - [💵 Fees and revenue](borrowing-module/vaults/fees.md)
  - [🎳 Liquidations](borrowing-module/vaults/liquidations.md)
  - [🤝 Whitelisting and volatile assets](borrowing-module/vaults/whitelisting-and-volatile-assets.md)
  - [🗡 Vaults Settlement](borrowing-module/vaults/settlement.md)
- [📚 Glossary](borrowing-module/glossary.md)

## Stablecoins Side Modules

- [🌉 Angle Cross-Chain Setup](other/cross-chain.md)
- [⚙️ Algorithmic Market Operations](other/amo.md)
- [⚡️ Flash Loans](other/flash-loans.md)

## Protocol Governance

- [🗳 Angle DAO](governance/angle-dao.md)
- [🚀 ANGLE Token](governance/angle-token.md)
- [♠ veANGLE](governance/veANGLE/README.md)
  - [🔒 Lock Details](governance/veANGLE/lock-details.md)
  - [🗳 Gauges](governance/veANGLE/gauges.md)
  - [💥 Boost](governance/veANGLE/boost.md)
  - [📈 Interest](governance/veangle/interest.md)
  - [🔓 Increasing your veANGLE balance](governance/veANGLE/increasing-veANGLE.md)
- [💂 Angle Guardian](governance/guardian.md)

## Side Products

- [🥨 Merkl](side-products/merkl/README.md)
  - [⛓ Integration Helpers](side-products/merkl/helpers.md)
  - [🌊 Liquidity Provider Guide](side-products/merkl/lp-guide.md)
  - [💰 Incentivizor Guide](side-products/merkl/incentivizor-guide.md)
    - [🖋 Incentivizor Disclaimer](side-products/merkl/incentivizor-tc.md)
  - [📒 Integration Guide](side-products/merkl/integration-guide.md)

## Resources

- [🔐 Audits](resources/audits/README.md)
- [🐛 Bug Bounty](resources/audits/bug-bounty.md)
- [📊 Angle Analytics](resources/analytics.md)
- [🌎 International](resources/international/README.md)
  - [🇷🇺 Russian - русский](resources/international/russian/README.md)
    - [Whitepaper](resources/international/russian/ru-whitepaper.md)
    - [Angle FAQ](resources/international/russian/faq.md)
    - [Представляем Angle Protocol](resources/international/russian/angle-introduction-article.md)
    - [ценность для держателей стейблкоинов](resources/international/russian/stablecoin-value-proposition.md)
    - [Значение для хеджинговых агентов](resources/international/russian/ha-value-proposition.md)
    - [Ценность для стандартных поставщиков ликвидности](resources/international/russian/slp-value-proposition.md)
    - [Токеномика Angle Protocol](resources/international/russian/tokenomics.md)
  - [🇨🇳 Chinese - 中国人](resources/international/chinese/README.md)
    - [角度协议介绍](resources/international/chinese/angle-intro-chinese.md)
    - [Document/文档](resources/international/chinese/angle-content.md)
    - [Glossary/词汇表](resources/international/chinese/angle-glossary.md)
    - [FAQ/常见问题](resources/international/chinese/angle-faq.md)
    - [Keepers 在 Angle Protocol 的角色](resources/international/chinese/keepers-chinese.md)
    - [agEUR 和 ANGLE 正式上线 Polygon](resources/international/chinese/tokens-polygon.md)
    - [Partnering with Superfluid](resources/international/chinese/superfluid.md)
  - [🇯🇵 Japanese - 日本語](resources/international/japanese/README.md)
    - [Angle FAQ](resources/international/japanese/faq.md)
    - [Angle プロトコルの紹介](resources/international/japanese/angle-intro-japanese.md)
  - [🇹🇷 Turkish](resources/international/turkish/README.md)
  - [🇪🇸 Spanish](resources/international/spanish/README.md)

Commit message:

Merkl changes - not ready to be merged (#182)
* Merkl changes

* screenshot for distributors and small changes

SUMMARY.md, after:

# Table of contents

## Overview

- [📐 Angle Documentation Portal](README.md)
- [⚒ Developers](https://developers.angle.money)
- [📖 Whitepapers](whitepapers.md)
- [📒 Glossary](global-glossary.md)
- [🔗 Quick Links](links.md)
- [🖼 Stablecoins](stablecoins.md)
- [🎓 Guides](guides/README.md)
  - [🚶 First Steps in Crypto](guides/newbie.md)
  - [🧩 Use cases](guides/use-cases/README.md)
    - [💸 Pay and get paid with agEUR](guides/use-cases/ageur-power-usecase.md)
    - [🏦 agEUR as a treasury asset](guides/use-cases/ageur-treasury.md)
  - [📔 App Guides](guides/app-guides/README.md)
    - [💱 Swap](guides/app-guides/agEUR/swap.md)
    - [🏦 Borrow](guides/app-guides/agEUR/borrow.md)
    - [🌉 Bridge](guides/app-guides/agEUR/bridge.md)
    - [💳 On-ramp & off-ramp](guides/app-guides/agEUR/on-ramp-off-ramp.md)
    - [⚖️ Leverage](guides/app-guides/trade/leverage.md)
    - [🛡 Perpetuals](guides/app-guides/trade/perpetuals.md)
    - [🍀 Staking](guides/app-guides/earn/staking.md)
      - [🦄 Uniswap V3 incentive mechanism](guides/app-guides/earn/staking/univ3-lp.md)
    - [💰 Buy](guides/app-guides/ANGLE/buy.md)
    - [🔒 Lock](guides/app-guides/ANGLE/lock.md)
    - [🧪 Gauges](guides/app-guides/ANGLE/gauges-voting.md)
    - [🗳 Vote](guides/app-guides/ANGLE/snapshot-votes.md)
    - [🧮 App Formulas](guides/other/formulas.md)

## Angle Core Module

- [🔭 Angle Core Module Overview](core-module/overview.md)
- [💱 Stable Seekers and Holders](core-module/stable-seekers/README.md)
  - [FAQ - Stable Seekers and Holders](core-module/stable-seekers/faq-stable.md)
- [🛡 Hedging Agents](core-module/hedging-agents/README.md)
  - [FAQ - Hedging Agents](core-module/hedging-agents/faq-ha.md)
- [🍀 Standard Liquidity Providers](core-module/standard-liquidity-providers/README.md)
  - [FAQ - Standard Liquidity Providers](core-module/standard-liquidity-providers/faq-slps.md)
- [📈 Lending Strategies - Yield on Reserves](core-module/lending.md)
- [🔍 Other aspects](core-module/other-aspects/README.md)
  - [🏭 Keepers](core-module/other-aspects/keepers.md)
  - [🔱 Oracles](core-module/other-aspects/oracles.md)
  - [📊 Collateral Ratio](core-module/other-aspects/collateral-ratio.md)
  - [🚑 Risks and Emergency Modules](core-module/other-aspects/emergency-modules.md)
  - [⌛ Collateral Settlement](core-module/other-aspects/collateral-settlement.md)
- [📚 Glossary](core-module/glossary.md)
- [❓ FAQ](core-module/faq.md)

## Angle Borrowing Module

- [🔭 Borrowing Module Overview](borrowing-module/README.md)
- [🏦 Vaults](borrowing-module/vaults/README.md)
  - [💵 Fees and revenue](borrowing-module/vaults/fees.md)
  - [🎳 Liquidations](borrowing-module/vaults/liquidations.md)
  - [🤝 Whitelisting and volatile assets](borrowing-module/vaults/whitelisting-and-volatile-assets.md)
  - [🗡 Vaults Settlement](borrowing-module/vaults/settlement.md)
- [📚 Glossary](borrowing-module/glossary.md)

## Stablecoins Side Modules

- [🌉 Angle Cross-Chain Setup](other/cross-chain.md)
- [⚙️ Algorithmic Market Operations](other/amo.md)
- [⚡️ Flash Loans](other/flash-loans.md)

## Protocol Governance

- [🗳 Angle DAO](governance/angle-dao.md)
- [🚀 ANGLE Token](governance/angle-token.md)
- [♠ veANGLE](governance/veANGLE/README.md)
  - [🔒 Lock Details](governance/veANGLE/lock-details.md)
  - [🗳 Gauges](governance/veANGLE/gauges.md)
  - [💥 Boost](governance/veANGLE/boost.md)
  - [📈 Interest](governance/veangle/interest.md)
  - [🔓 Increasing your veANGLE balance](governance/veANGLE/increasing-veANGLE.md)
- [💂 Angle Guardian](governance/guardian.md)

## Side Products

- [🥨 Merkl](side-products/merkl/README.md)
  - [💸 Distribute incentives](side-products/merkl/incentivizor-guide.md)
    - [🖋 Incentivizor Disclaimer](side-products/merkl/incentivizor-tc.md)
  - [🔌 Integrate Merkl in your App](side-products/merkl/integration-guide.md)
    - [⛓ Integration Helpers](side-products/merkl/helpers.md)
  - [🌊 Provide liquidity and claim](side-products/merkl/lp-guide.md)

## Resources

- [🔐 Audits](resources/audits/README.md)
- [🐛 Bug Bounty](resources/audits/bug-bounty.md)
- [📊 Angle Analytics](resources/analytics.md)
- [🌎 International](resources/international/README.md)
  - [🇷🇺 Russian - русский](resources/international/russian/README.md)
    - [Whitepaper](resources/international/russian/ru-whitepaper.md)
    - [Angle FAQ](resources/international/russian/faq.md)
    - [Представляем Angle Protocol](resources/international/russian/angle-introduction-article.md)
    - [ценность для держателей стейблкоинов](resources/international/russian/stablecoin-value-proposition.md)
    - [Значение для хеджинговых агентов](resources/international/russian/ha-value-proposition.md)
    - [Ценность для стандартных поставщиков ликвидности](resources/international/russian/slp-value-proposition.md)
    - [Токеномика Angle Protocol](resources/international/russian/tokenomics.md)
  - [🇨🇳 Chinese - 中国人](resources/international/chinese/README.md)
    - [角度协议介绍](resources/international/chinese/angle-intro-chinese.md)
    - [Document/文档](resources/international/chinese/angle-content.md)
    - [Glossary/词汇表](resources/international/chinese/angle-glossary.md)
    - [FAQ/常见问题](resources/international/chinese/angle-faq.md)
    - [Keepers 在 Angle Protocol 的角色](resources/international/chinese/keepers-chinese.md)
    - [agEUR 和 ANGLE 正式上线 Polygon](resources/international/chinese/tokens-polygon.md)
    - [Partnering with Superfluid](resources/international/chinese/superfluid.md)
  - [🇯🇵 Japanese - 日本語](resources/international/japanese/README.md)
    - [Angle FAQ](resources/international/japanese/faq.md)
    - [Angle プロトコルの紹介](resources/international/japanese/angle-intro-japanese.md)
  - [🇹🇷 Turkish](resources/international/turkish/README.md)
  - [🇪🇸 Spanish](resources/international/spanish/README.md)
