guides/app-guides/agEUR/bridge.md, before:

---
description: How to bridge agEUR and ANGLE to different networks with the Angle App
---

Angle App leverages the protocol's [cross-chain bridge setup](../../../other/cross-chain.md) built on LayerZero to enable [bridging agEUR and ANGLE](https://app.angle.money/bridges-agEUR) between many EVM-compatible networks.

To bridge agEUR or ANGLE from a network to another, you simply need to select the token you want to bridge, enter the amount, and select the destination network.

![Bridge app page](../../../.gitbook/assets/bridge.png)

There are two other aspects you need to be careful about:

1. [**Bridge limits**](#bridge-limits)
2. Having enough funds on the **origin chain** to [pay for tx fees](#funds-required-to-pay-for-bridge-transaction-fees) on the origin **and** destination chains.

**Table of contents:**

- [Bridge limits](#bridge-limits)
  - [How to get back agEUR from lz-agEUR](#how-to-get-back-ageur-from-lz-ageur)
- [Funds required to pay for bridge transaction fees](#funds-required-to-pay-for-bridge-transaction-fees)
- [I'm not sure if my bridge transaction was confirmed](#im-not-sure-if-my-bridge-transaction-was-confirmed)

## Bridge limits

Angle's LayerZero implementation has a total and a hourly limit. The total limits limit how much token can be held by the bridge contract on each chain. The hourly limits limit how much can be bridged to and from each chain.

If the limits are reached, you won't receive agEUR in your wallet in the destination chain. Instead, you will receive lz-agEUR tokens in your wallet that can be used to redeem canonical agEUR later, when the limits reset. Information on the current limits is displayed in the callout below the inputs.

![Bridge app page](/.gitbook/assets/bridge-limits-info.png)

### How to get back agEUR from lz-agEUR

On each network where agEUR can be bridged, there is a lz-agEUR contract. You can find their addresses on the [smart contracts addresses](https://developers.angle.money/overview/smart-contracts) page.

If you hit a bridge limit, you should have received lz-agEUR tokens in your wallet. In this case, you can go to the token contract ([example on Optimism](https://optimistic.etherscan.io/address/0x840b25c87b626a259ca5ac32124fa752f0230a72#writeProxyContract)).

![Receive lz-agEUR](/.gitbook/assets/receive-lz-ageur.png)

Then follow these steps:

1. Click on `Write as Proxy`
2. Connect your wallet to Etherscan by clicking on the `Connect to Web3` button.
3. Scroll down to function `22. withdraw()`
4. Enter the amount of lz-agEUR you want to exchange for agEUR, and your wallet address.
5. And send the transaction!

[Example of a withdraw transaction](https://optimistic.etherscan.io/tx/0x20799daf2e30ccf2ec4cf1f66b85f01273b3fc26bc786ad25d7b187eb810f721)

![Connect lz-agEUR](/.gitbook/assets/connect-lzageur.png)

![Send tx Etherscan](/.gitbook/assets/send-tx-etherscan.png)

If the limits are still empty, you will just get the same amount of `lz-agEUR` back. You can check the current limits on the app [bridge page](https://app.angle.money/bridges-agEUR).

## Funds required to pay for bridge transaction fees

When bridging from a network to another, you need enough gas token on the origin chain to pay for bridge transactions **both on the origin and destination chains**.

For example, if you bridge from Polygon to Ethereum mainnet, where tx fees are higher, you will need more MATIC than usual on Polygon to pay for the transactions.

If you don't have enough funds, the transaction might revert or you could get an `internal JSON RPC` error.

## I'm not sure if my bridge transaction was confirmed

If you don't know wether you should have received funds in your wallet after a bridge transaction, you should check on [LayerZeroScan](https://layerzeroscan.com/) with the hash of the bridge transaction from the origin network.

If the transaction on the destination chain is confirmed but you don't have the tokens in your wallet, you can read the paragraphe about [how to get back agEUR from lz-agEUR](#how-to-get-back-ageur-from-lz-ageur).

Commit message:

add amount and decimals info to bridge guide

guides/app-guides/agEUR/bridge.md, after:

---
description: How to bridge agEUR and ANGLE to different networks with the Angle App
---

Angle App leverages the protocol's [cross-chain bridge setup](../../../other/cross-chain.md) built on LayerZero to enable [bridging agEUR and ANGLE](https://app.angle.money/bridges-agEUR) between many EVM-compatible networks.

To bridge agEUR or ANGLE from a network to another, you simply need to select the token you want to bridge, enter the amount, and select the destination network.

![Bridge app page](../../../.gitbook/assets/bridge.png)

There are two other aspects you need to be careful about:

1. [**Bridge limits**](#bridge-limits)
2. Having enough funds on the **origin chain** to [pay for tx fees](#funds-required-to-pay-for-bridge-transaction-fees) on the origin **and** destination chains.

**Table of contents:**

- [Bridge limits](#bridge-limits)
  - [How to get back agEUR from lz-agEUR](#how-to-get-back-ageur-from-lz-ageur)
- [Funds required to pay for bridge transaction fees](#funds-required-to-pay-for-bridge-transaction-fees)
- [I'm not sure if my bridge transaction was confirmed](#im-not-sure-if-my-bridge-transaction-was-confirmed)

## Bridge limits

Angle's LayerZero implementation has a total and a hourly limit. The total limits limit how much token can be held by the bridge contract on each chain. The hourly limits limit how much can be bridged to and from each chain.

If the limits are reached, you won't receive agEUR in your wallet in the destination chain. Instead, you will receive lz-agEUR tokens in your wallet that can be used to redeem canonical agEUR later, when the limits reset. Information on the current limits is displayed in the callout below the inputs.

![Bridge app page](/.gitbook/assets/bridge-limits-info.png)

### How to get back agEUR from lz-agEUR

On each network where agEUR can be bridged, there is a lz-agEUR contract. You can find their addresses on the [smart contracts addresses](https://developers.angle.money/overview/smart-contracts) page.

If you hit a bridge limit, you should have received lz-agEUR tokens in your wallet. In this case, you can go to the token contract ([example on Optimism](https://optimistic.etherscan.io/address/0x840b25c87b626a259ca5ac32124fa752f0230a72#writeProxyContract)).

![Receive lz-agEUR](/.gitbook/assets/receive-lz-ageur.png)

Then follow these steps:

1. Click on `Write as Proxy`
2. Connect your wallet to Etherscan by clicking on the `Connect to Web3` button.
3. Scroll down to function `22. withdraw()`
4. Enter the amount of lz-agEUR you want to exchange for agEUR, and your wallet address. _The amount input needs to be in the correct decimals format: you need to multiply the amount by `10^18`. For example, to exchange `123` lz-agEUR, you need to input `123 000 000 000 000 000 000`._
5. And send the transaction!

[Example of a withdraw transaction](https://optimistic.etherscan.io/tx/0x20799daf2e30ccf2ec4cf1f66b85f01273b3fc26bc786ad25d7b187eb810f721)

![Connect lz-agEUR](/.gitbook/assets/connect-lzageur.png)

![Send tx Etherscan](/.gitbook/assets/send-tx-etherscan.png)

If the limits are still empty, you will just get the same amount of `lz-agEUR` back. You can check the current limits on the app [bridge page](https://app.angle.money/bridges-agEUR).

## Funds required to pay for bridge transaction fees

When bridging from a network to another, you need enough gas token on the origin chain to pay for bridge transactions **both on the origin and destination chains**.

For example, if you bridge from Polygon to Ethereum mainnet, where tx fees are higher, you will need more MATIC than usual on Polygon to pay for the transactions.

If you don't have enough funds, the transaction might revert or you could get an `internal JSON RPC` error.

## I'm not sure if my bridge transaction was confirmed

If you don't know wether you should have received funds in your wallet after a bridge transaction, you should check on [LayerZeroScan](https://layerzeroscan.com/) with the hash of the bridge transaction from the origin network.

If the transaction on the destination chain is confirmed but you don't have the tokens in your wallet, you can read the paragraphe about [how to get back agEUR from lz-agEUR](#how-to-get-back-ageur-from-lz-ageur).
