guides/app-guides/agEUR/swap.md, before:

---
description: How to mint and burn agTokens using Angle app or other providers
---

# 💶 Swap - Buy agEUR

agEUR is a **EUR-pegged stablecoin**, meaning that it's built to mirror the value of the EUR. The objective behind stablecoins is to create tokens that hold their value against some tangible references, like central bank currencies, and make them available on decentralized and open blockchains such as Ethereum.

If you are new to crypto, follow our [guide for new crypto users](newbie.md) first. Otherwise, keep reading here to see how you can get agEUR directly from Angle. If you want to buy agEUR with credit card or bank transfer, you can refer to this guide.

## Buying agEUR from the Angle App

The Angle App Swap page integrates 1inch and Angle's native mint & burn mechanism to provide the best agEUR rates.

Here are the steps to buy agEUR from

1. Go to the [Swap page](https://app.angle.money/#/swap) of the Angle app.
2. Select the token you want to buy agEUR with. You can also copy any token's address you like.
3. Enter the amounts you want.
4. The app will automatically fetch the best rates for you in the background thanks to the 1inch integration.
5. Approve your tokens. More precisely, to interact with Angle (and any other DeFi protocol), you need to approve (this is a transaction which costs ETH) or give permissions (signature) for the tokens you want to spend. This depends on the tokens used and not on the protocol. You can learn more about approving tokens [here](/guides/other/app-faq.md).
6. Once the permission has been signed or the approval transaction has been executed, you can confirm the transaction to buy agEUR.

You now have agEUR, a stablecoin that mirrors the value of the EUR!

{% hint style="info" %}
You can refresh the rates by clicking on the circled arrow on the top right of the inputs.
{% endhint %}

![Minting agEUR](/.gitbook/assets/swap-agEUR.png)

## Selling agEUR

Selling agEUR through the Swap page works exactly in the opposite way. Click on the arrow between the two inputs to put agEUR as `From` token. You can then select the token you want to swap agEUR for, enter an amount and confirm your transaction.

Commit message:

Add angle labs (#139)
* adding angle labs in some places

* adding references to Angle Labs

* changing one reference

* capital letter at analytics

guides/app-guides/agEUR/swap.md, after:

---
description: How to get agEUR using the Angle app
---

# 💱 Swap - Buy agEUR

agEUR is a **EUR-pegged stablecoin**, meaning that it's built to mirror the value of the EUR.

If you are new to crypto, follow our [guide for new crypto users](../../newbie.md) first. Otherwise, keep reading here to see how you can get agEUR directly from Angle. If you want to buy agEUR with credit card or bank transfer, you can refer to [this guide](./on-ramp-off-ramp.md).

## Buying agEUR

The app Swap page integrates 1inch and Angle's native mint & burn mechanism (on Ethereum) to provide the best agEUR rates.

Here are the steps to buy agEUR from Angle:

1. Go to the [Swap page](https://app.angle.money/#/swap) of the app.
2. Select network on which you want to get agEUR. Currently, Ethereum, Optimism, Arbitrum and Polygon are supported.
3. Select the token you want to buy agEUR with. You can also copy any token's address you like.
4. Enter the amounts you want.
5. The app will automatically fetch the best rates for you in the background thanks to the 1inch integration.
6. Approve your tokens. More precisely, to interact with Angle (and any other DeFi protocol), you need to approve (this is a transaction which costs ETH) or give permissions (signature) for the tokens you want to spend. This depends on the tokens used and not on the protocol. You can learn more about approving tokens [here](/guides/other/app-faq.md).
7. Once the permission has been signed or the approval transaction has been executed, you can confirm the transaction to buy agEUR.

You now have agEUR, a stablecoin that mirrors the value of the EUR!

{% hint style="info" %}
You can refresh the rates by clicking on the circled arrow on the top right of the inputs.
{% endhint %}

![Minting agEUR](/.gitbook/assets/swap-agEUR.png)

## Selling agEUR

Selling agEUR through the Swap page works exactly in the opposite way. Click on the arrow between the two inputs to put agEUR as `From` token. You can then select the token you want to swap agEUR for, enter an amount and confirm your transaction.
