resources/user-guides/mint-burn.md, before:

# Minting & Burning agTokens

## Minting

1. Go to [app.angle.money](https://app.angle.money).
2. Make sure that you got DAI, USDC, wETH or wBTC, as well as ETH to pay for gas fees ([Rinkeby User Guide](README.md)).
3. Select the collateral you want to send, and the stablecoin you want to mint/receive.
   - Supported collaterals: DAI, USDC, wETH, wBTC
   - Available agTokens: agEUR, agUSD, agJPY, agGBP, agCHF...
4. Approve your collateral (you will need to approve your collateral for every collateral/agToken pair, more info [here](app-faq.md))
5. Mint your stablecoins against collateral.

You now have stable tokens that mirror the value of the assets they are pegged to (EUR for agEUR for example).

## Burning

Burning agTokens is a similar process than minting.

1. Click on the `Burn` tab.
2. Select the agToken you want to burn and the collateral you want to receive.
3. All the agTokens are approved by default on Angle.
4. Send your agTokens, and you will get back the corresponding amount of collateral you selected.

Commit message:

ultimate checks on the user guides (#11)
* ultimate checks on the user guides

* fixing fraction

* fixing typo

* added description

* added descriptions

* fixing typo

resources/user-guides/mint-burn.md, after:

---
description: How to mint and burn agTokens using Angle app
---

# Minting & Burning agTokens

## Minting

1. Go to [app.angle.money](https://app.angle.money).
2. Make sure that you got DAI, USDC, wETH or wBTC, as well as ETH to pay for gas fees. Check this [user guide](README.md) we have made for how to get testnet tokens.
3. Select the collateral you want to send, and the stablecoin you want to mint/receive.
   - Supported collaterals: DAI, USDC, wETH, wBTC
   - Available agTokens: agEUR, agUSD, agJPY, agGBP, agCHF...
4. Approve your collateral. You will need to approve your collateral for every collateral/agToken pair (more details [here](app-faq.md)).
5. Mint your stablecoins against collateral.

You now have stable tokens that mirror the value of the assets they are pegged to (EUR for agEUR for example).

## Burning

Burning agTokens is a similar process than minting.

1. Click on the `Burn` tab.
2. Select the agToken you want to burn and the collateral you want to receive.
3. All the agTokens are approved by default on Angle.
4. Send your agTokens, and you will get back the corresponding amount of collateral you selected.
