resources/analytics.md, before:

---
description: List of different analytics sources about Angle
---

# 📊 Angle analytics

Angle has a dedicated analytics providing users with the most important information about the protocol. Additionally, community members have built useful Dune dashboards to see specific aspects.

## Angle Protocol Analytics

Angle analytics is available at [analytics.angle.money](https://analytics.angle.money/). General data about the protocol, specific information about governance, smart contract modules, and the different stablecoins can be found there.

## Angle community Dune dashboards

Amazing community members have also built dedicated Dune dashboards about Angle! You can find complementary information about what is going on in the protocol. However, note that some data might be inaccurate or outdated, and you should always make sure to double-check the information.

All the Angle related Dune dashboards have been grouped in one [Angle Main Dashboard](https://dune.com/tuta/angle-master-dashboard).

If you build an Angle dashboard yourself, drop a message on Discord and we will add it there.

## Angle Integrations

Angle related products are integrated in multiple places in DeFi. A complete list of all agEUR integrations can be found on our Discord [here](https://discord.com/channels/835066439891157012/907535810067304458/907537277939482636).

If you think about more data that would be useful to display about Angle or are planning to build a dashboard about the protocol, feel free to reach out in our [Discord](https://discord.gg/bwHQTMsf)!

Commit message:

adding references to Angle Labs

resources/analytics.md, after:

---
description: List of different analytics sources about Angle
---

# 📊 Angle analytics

Angle is a decentralized protocol. This means that all reserves controlled by the protocol are transparent and can be monitored in real-time.

A a lot of resources have been built to help people easily understand and track what’s going on in the protocol.

## Angle User-Friendly Analytics

We at Angle Labs, Inc. have developed a user-friendly analytics available at [analytics.angle.money](https://analytics.angle.money/) to track in real-time the health and status of the system.
General data about the protocol, specific information about governance, smart contract modules, and the different stablecoins can be found there.

## Angle Community Dune Dashboards

Amazing community members have also built dedicated Dune dashboards about Angle! You can find complementary information about what is going on in the protocol. However, note that some data might be inaccurate or outdated, and you should always make sure to double-check the information.

All the Angle related Dune dashboards have been grouped in one [Angle Main Dashboard](https://dune.com/tuta/angle-master-dashboard).

If you build an Angle dashboard yourself, drop a message on Discord and we will add it there.

## Angle Smart Contract Addresses

Angle works as a set of smart contracts, and the best way to track the state of the protocol for advanced users is to look directly in these smart contracts on Etherscan. All Angle-related smart contract addresses can be found in [our developers documentation](https://developers.angle.money/overview/smart-contracts).

## Angle Integrations

Angle related products are integrated in multiple places in DeFi. A complete list of all agEUR integrations can be found on our Discord [here](https://discord.com/channels/835066439891157012/907535810067304458/907537277939482636).

If you think about more data that would be useful to display about Angle or are planning to build a dashboard about the protocol, feel free to reach out in our [Discord](https://discord.gg/bwHQTMsf)!
