guides/use-cases/ageur-power-usecase.md, before:

---
description: Using agEUR as a payment currency
---

# 💸 Pay and get paid with agEUR

agEUR can be used to pay and get paid from any crypto to a bank account in only two on-chain transactions. Specifically, it is designed to allow:

- **Companies or DAOs** to pay their contributors through agEUR through Angle from the token that they want
- **Contributors** to **invoice companies and get paid in agEUR** in a fully compliant way
- **Contributors** to **transfer agEUR** **to EUR in their bank account** to cover the cost of their everyday lives!

![Pay and get paid with agEUR](../../.gitbook/assets/getting-paid-ageur.jpg)

In this guide, we show how companies, DAOs, and their contributors can leverage agEUR and Angle’s partners Request, Mt Pelerin, as well as Superfluid to handle salaries and payments quickly and in a compliant way.

## Invoicing in agEUR with Request

### Contributors side

[Request](https://app.request.finance) lets users create and send custom invoices to their clients. Users can denominate their invoice in crypto or fiat, and ask to be paid in crypto or fiat. For example, a German or French resident working for an international DAO could label their invoice in EUR, but ask to be paid in agEUR.

To do that, the person creating the invoice has to specify the wallet address that they want to receive the funds on.

![Request create invoice](../../.gitbook/assets/request-create-invoice.png)

Request invoices then look like that 👇

![Request invoice](../../.gitbook/assets/request-invoice.png)

### Crypto Company / DAO side: pay contributor with agEUR from any token

On the company side, once they receive the invoice they can just send the required amount of agEUR to the specified address. If they don’t own agEUR yet, they can go through Angle’s app at [app.angle.money](http://app.angle.money), and add the invoicer address as recipient.

Then, they can select **any token they hold**, and use the expert mode to make sure the minimum amount received is that of the invoice.

![Angle agEUR from any token](../../.gitbook/assets/send-to-recipient.png)

**In one on-chain transaction, any company or DAO can pay their contributors with any token, almost instantly, and at very low fees.**

## Withdrawing the agEUR received to a bank account with Mt Pelerin

Once the contributors have received their payment from the DAO / company, they can simply withdraw the agEUR from their wallet to EUR in their bank account in one on-chain transaction by using [Mt Pelerin](https://www.mtpelerin.com/sell-crypto).

Mt Pelerin allows anyone to send their cryptos back to their bank account quickly and easily, at the cost and speed of one transaction. If you're a first time user selling less than 500 agEUR, you will not pay any fees in the process.

Above a certain amount, a KYC on Mt Pelerin’s mobile application may however be needed.

Obviously, users can also keep their agEUR and invest it to take advantage of the different yield opportunities available with it.

![Mt Pelerin off-ramp](../../.gitbook/assets/mtpelerin-offramp.png)

## 💸 Streaming payments with Superfluid

agEUR is integrated with [Superfluid](https://www.superfluid.finance/home) which means it can be used to facilitate the administration of payments by companies. Specifically, with Superfluid, companies do not need to create new transfer transactions every month.

Superfluid indeed allows people to **stream tokens on Polygon:** with Superfluid, users can get paid continuously, and not just once at the end of each month.

To do so, payers just have to wrap their agEUR into agEURx. To withdraw the received agEURx, users simply need to unwrap them on their side.

As explained above, they can then use Mt Pelerin to send EUR back to their bank account, or find a good yield opportunity on Polygon.

![Superfluid stream](../../.gitbook/assets/superfluid-stream.png)

Commit message:

changing off ramp guides and agEUR as a treasury asset (#152)

guides/use-cases/ageur-power-usecase.md, after:

---
description: Using agEUR as a payment currency
---

# 💸 Pay and get paid with agEUR

agEUR can be used to pay and get paid from any crypto to a bank account in only two on-chain transactions. Specifically, it is designed to allow:

- **Companies or DAOs** to pay their contributors through agEUR through Angle from the token that they want
- **Contributors** to **invoice companies and get paid in agEUR** in a fully compliant way
- **Contributors** to **transfer and off-ramp their agEUR to EUR in their bank account** to cover the cost of their everyday lives!

![Pay and get paid with agEUR](../../.gitbook/assets/getting-paid-ageur.jpg)

In this guide, we show how companies, DAOs, and their contributors can leverage agEUR’s integrations to handle salaries, payments and off-ramps quickly and in a compliant way.

## Invoicing in agEUR with Request

### Contributors side

[Request](https://app.request.finance) is an invoicing solution that supports crypto assets and payments. With Request, users can denominate their invoice in crypto or fiat, and ask to be paid in crypto or fiat on the address of their choice.

A German or French resident working for an international DAO could for instance label their invoice in EUR, but ask to be paid in agEUR.

![Request create invoice](../../.gitbook/assets/request-create-invoice.png)

Request invoices then look like that 👇

![Request invoice](../../.gitbook/assets/request-invoice.png)

### Crypto Company / DAO side: pay contributor with agEUR from any token

As a company, once you receive an invoice, you just have to send the required amount of agEUR to the specified address.

If you don’t own agEUR yet, you can go through Angle app at [app.angle.money](http://app.angle.money), and add the invoicer address as recipient.

Then, just select **any token your company holds**, and use the expert mode to make sure the minimum amount received is that of the invoice.

![Angle agEUR from any token](../../.gitbook/assets/send-to-recipient.png)

**In one on-chain transaction, you can pay your contributors with any token, almost instantly, and at very low fees.**

## Withdrawing agEUR to a bank account

agEUR is supported by several off-ramp providers that enable withdrawing agEUR from your wallet to your bank account.

Obviously, if you're paid in agEUR, you don't have to sell it immediately, and you can also use it to take advantage of the different yield opportunities available with it and listed [here](https://app.angle.money/#/earn).

### With Mt Pelerin

[Mt Pelerin](https://www.mtpelerin.com/sell-crypto) is an off-ramp provider that supports agEUR.

Mt Pelerin allows anyone to send their cryptos back to their bank account quickly and easily, at the cost and speed of one transaction. If you're a first time user selling less than 500 agEUR, you will not pay any fees in the process.

Above a certain amount, a KYC on Mt Pelerin’s mobile application may however be needed.

![Mt Pelerin off-ramp](../../.gitbook/assets/mtpelerin-offramp.png)

### Through tokens agEUR is liquid with

agEUR is a liquid token that can be easily exchanged on-chain to other crypto assets which can be off-ramped or sold to fiat with little to no fees.

One easy way to get EUR in your bank account back from your agEUR is to swap them to [EURs](https://stasis.net), [EUROC](https://www.circle.com/en/), or [EURe](https://monerium.com/tokens/). These are centralized stablecoins, which even though they provide less yield opportunities than agEUR, remain simple ways to off-ramp to Euros in a bank account (provided that you have a KYC with the related entities).

If you don't care for bearing transiently a change risk, you can also swap your agEUR to USDC for 0.01% on 1inch and then convert your USDC back to EUR using Circle, or a centralized exchange.

## 💸 Streaming payments

agEUR is supported by several solutions designed to facilitate the administration of payments by companies (no need to create new transfer transactions every month) and to enable users to be paid continuously and not just once at the end of each month.

This includes:

- [LlamaPay](https://llamapay.io)
- [Superfluid](https://www.superfluid.finance/home): it only works on Polygon. To make it work, payers have to wrap their agEUR into agEURx, and users need to unwrap the agEURx they receive.

![Superfluid stream](../../.gitbook/assets/superfluid-stream.png)
