resources/popularization/README.md, before:

---
description: >-
  Content and elements designed to make Angle Protocol and DeFi more accessible
  to everyone
---

# ⭐ Popularization

Angle is a complex protocol but its vision remains clear: build tools and money legos to onboard a billion users to DeFi. To succeed in this, not only is making reliable stablecoins important but education becomes even more crucial.

The idea with this page is to gather in a single place all the educational/popularization content about the protocol and DeFi.

{% hint style="success" %}
Achieving this requires more than the implication of a dedicated Core Team and so any help is welcome to keep populating and producing content that will help everyone understand what DeFi stands for and how Angle can fit in that vision. The place to suggest ideas is as always Angle Community [Discord Server](https://discord.gg/67WSSZqBG6) 📐
{% endhint %}

## What is Angle Protocol?

{% file src="../../.gitbook/assets/angle-explanatory-slides.pdf" %}
What is Angle Protocol?
{% endfile %}

- _Details: A simple and graphical presentation to quickly understand what the Angle Protocol is and how it works_
- _DeFi Expertise Required: 2/5_
- _Recommended If: You want a concise and straight to the point overview of what Angle is_

## Angle Introduction Article

{% embed url="https://blog.angle.money/introducing-angle-protocol-3e3e603d3f60" %}
Angle Introduction Article
{% endembed %}

- _Details: A more thorough article to get a clear and thorough overview of the Angle Protocol and its different stakeholders_
- _DeFi Expertise Required: 2/5_
- _Recommended If: You want to go deep in the subject, understand the vision behind the project and how it tries to achieve it_

## 🧑‍🏫 Angle Knowledge Quizzes

Quizzes: [Part 1](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSddUD8rNRBNvPHJN15DvPT9Lbglu5-M_iGQU_PGD4wchvHnLg/viewform?usp=sf_link), [Part 2](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLScK7dZtSHQUg3zEoLFP27-2M92Bpl6AUOiOi-WEc62gkvaPcw/viewform?usp=sf_link), [Part 3](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSe7z5ZFgsokkFLIl4zhcjhY5LrnJ_gfbzAytWHKnFguQY7HFw/viewform?usp=sf_link)

- _Details: These quizzes will help you test your knowledge and understanding of the Angle Protocol_
- _DeFi Expertise Required: From 2/5 to 4/5 (quizzes are increasing in difficulty)_
- _Recommended If: You had fun reading the docs and other documents about the protocol and want to check how much you have learned_

Commit message:

Reorg use cases (#113)
* new use-cases folder

* add Angle Explains thread

* change threads to the same format

* fixes pablo comments

* add README.md to summary

resources/popularization/README.md, after:

---
description: Content and elements designed to make Angle Protocol and DeFi more accessible to everyone
---

# ⭐ Popularization

Angle is a complex protocol but its vision remains clear: build tools and money legos to onboard a billion users to DeFi. To succeed in this, not only is making reliable stablecoins important but education becomes even more crucial.

The idea with this page is to gather in a single place all the educational/popularization content about the protocol and DeFi.

{% hint style="success" %}
Achieving this requires more than the implication of a dedicated Core Team and so any help is welcome to keep populating and producing content that will help everyone understand what DeFi stands for and how Angle can fit in that vision. The place to suggest ideas is as always Angle Community [Discord Server](https://discord.gg/67WSSZqBG6) 📐
{% endhint %}

## What is Angle Protocol?

{% file src="../../.gitbook/assets/angle-explanatory-slides.pdf" %}
What is Angle Protocol?
{% endfile %}

- _Details: A simple and graphical presentation to quickly understand what the Angle Protocol is and how it works_
- _DeFi Expertise Required: 2/5_
- _Recommended If: You want a concise and straight to the point overview of what Angle is_

## Angle Introduction Article

{% embed url="https://blog.angle.money/introducing-angle-protocol-3e3e603d3f60" %}
Angle Introduction Article
{% endembed %}

- _Details: A more thorough article to get a clearer overview of the Angle Protocol Core module and its different stakeholders_
- _DeFi Expertise: 2/5_
- _Recommended If: You want to go deep in the subject, understand the vision behind the project and how it tries to achieve it_

## Angle Explains Threads

- _Details: regular threads about Angle or DeFi subjects related to the protocol. The goal is to give more insights to the Angle and wider crypto communities about those topics._
- _DeFi Expertise: 2/5 to 4/5_
- _Recommended if you want to dive deeper into various topics concerning Angle, DeFi, and stablecoins._

**Threads**:
- June 5th 2022: [veTokens and Liquid Lockers, Part 1](https://twitter.com/AngleProtocol/status/1533416014033059841)
- May 29th 2022: [Inflation-resistant stablecoins](https://twitter.com/AngleProtocol/status/1530864272456163329)

## 🧑‍🏫 Angle Knowledge Quizzes

Quizzes: [Part 1](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSddUD8rNRBNvPHJN15DvPT9Lbglu5-M_iGQU_PGD4wchvHnLg/viewform?usp=sf_link), [Part 2](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLScK7dZtSHQUg3zEoLFP27-2M92Bpl6AUOiOi-WEc62gkvaPcw/viewform?usp=sf_link), [Part 3](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSe7z5ZFgsokkFLIl4zhcjhY5LrnJ_gfbzAytWHKnFguQY7HFw/viewform?usp=sf_link)

- _Details: These quizzes will help you test your knowledge and understanding of the Angle Protocol_
- _DeFi Expertise: From 2/5 to 4/5 (quizzes are increasing in difficulty)_
- _Recommended If: You had fun reading the docs and other documents about the protocol and want to check how much you have learned_
