resources/audits/README.md, before:

---
description: Results and reports of Angle Protocol audit engagements
cover: ../../.gitbook/assets/Angle-Audits.jpg
coverY: 0
---

# 🔐 Audits

Angle Protocol has undergone several audits for its smart contracts and modules.

## Chainsecurity April 2022 - May 2022

Audit report of the borrowing module of the Angle protocol performed by Chainsecurity between April and May 2022.

{% file src="../../.gitbook/assets/chainsecurity-spring22.pdf" %}
Chainsecurity Spring 2022 Audit Report
{% endfile %}

## Chainsecurity December 2021 - January 2022

Audit report of some elements of Angle new governance system performed by Chainsecurity between December 2021 and January 2022.

{% file src="../../.gitbook/assets/chainsecurity-december21.pdf" %}
Chainsecurity December 2021 Audit Report
{% endfile %}

## Chainsecurity July - October 2021

Audit report of the smart contracts of the protocol performed by Chainsecurity between July and October 2021. The official link from Chainsecurity can be found [here](https://chainsecurity.com/security-audit/angle-protocol/).

{% file src="../../.gitbook/assets/chainsecurity-summer21.pdf" %}
Chainsecurity Summer 2021 Audit Report
{% endfile %}

## Sigma Prime July - October 2021

Audit report of the smart contracts of the protocol performed by Sigma Prime between July and October 2021.

{% file src="../../.gitbook/assets/sp-summer21.pdf" %}
Sigma Prime Summer 2021 Audit Report
{% endfile %}

Commit message:

feat: add code4rena audit

resources/audits/README.md, after:

---
description: Results and reports of Angle Protocol audit engagements
cover: ../../.gitbook/assets/Angle-Audits.jpg
coverY: 0
---

# 🔐 Audits

Angle Protocol has undergone several audits for its smart contracts and modules.

## Code4rena June 2023 - July 2023

[Audit report](https://code4rena.com/reports/2023-06-angle) of the Transmuter system and of Merkl smart contracts performed by Code4rena between June and July 2023.

## Chainsecurity April 2022 - May 2022

Audit report of the borrowing module of the Angle protocol performed by Chainsecurity between April and May 2022.

{% file src="../../.gitbook/assets/chainsecurity-spring22.pdf" %}
Chainsecurity Spring 2022 Audit Report
{% endfile %}

## Chainsecurity December 2021 - January 2022

Audit report of some elements of Angle new governance system performed by Chainsecurity between December 2021 and January 2022.

{% file src="../../.gitbook/assets/chainsecurity-december21.pdf" %}
Chainsecurity December 2021 Audit Report
{% endfile %}

## Chainsecurity July - October 2021

Audit report of the smart contracts of the protocol performed by Chainsecurity between July and October 2021. The official link from Chainsecurity can be found [here](https://chainsecurity.com/security-audit/angle-protocol/).

{% file src="../../.gitbook/assets/chainsecurity-summer21.pdf" %}
Chainsecurity Summer 2021 Audit Report
{% endfile %}

## Sigma Prime July - October 2021

Audit report of the smart contracts of the protocol performed by Sigma Prime between July and October 2021.

{% file src="../../.gitbook/assets/sp-summer21.pdf" %}
Sigma Prime Summer 2021 Audit Report
{% endfile %}
