app-guides/mint-burn.md, before:

---
description: How to mint and burn agTokens using Angle app
---

# Minting & Burning agTokens

## Approving tokens

To interact with Angle protocol, you will need to approve tokens for each collateral/stablecoin pool. You can learn more about approving tokens [here](../user-guides/app-faq/#why-do-i-need-to-approve-the-same-token-multiple-times).

![Approving tokens](../.gitbook/assets/approving-tokens.png)

## Minting

1. Go to [app.angle.money](https://app.angle.money).
2. Make sure that you have ETH to pay for gas fees, as well as some of the tokens accepted as collateral.
3. Select the collateral you want to send, and the stablecoin you want to mint/receive.
   * Supported collaterals: DAI, USDC
   * Available agTokens: agEUR
4. Approve your collateral. You will need to approve your collateral for every collateral/agToken pair (more details [here](app-faq.md)).
5. Mint your stablecoins against collateral.

You now have stable tokens that mirror the value of the assets they are pegged to (EUR for agEUR for example).

![Minting agEUR](../.gitbook/assets/mint-usdc-agEUR.png)

## Burning

Burning agTokens is a similar process than minting.

1. Click on the `Burn` tab.
2. Select the agToken you want to burn and the collateral you want to receive.
3. All the agTokens are approved by default on Angle.
4. Send your agTokens, and you will get back the corresponding amount of collateral you selected.

![Burning agEUR](../.gitbook/assets/burn-agEUR-DAI.png)

Commit message:

New user guides 0322 (#84)
* first refresh user-guides, waiting for router

* update user guides, lacks screenshots from router

* added screenshots

* fixed comments

Co-authored-by: Gustave Laurant <gustave@MacBook-Air-de-Gustave.local>

app-guides/mint-burn.md, after:

---
description: How to mint and burn agTokens using Angle app
---

# How to get agEUR 

agEUR is a **EUR-pegged stablecoin**, meaning that it's built to mirror the value of the EUR. 

If you are new to crypto, follow our [guide for new crypto users](/app-guides/newbie.md). Then, keep reading here to see how you can get agEUR on the blockchain. 

There are multiple ways to get agEUR: 

- mint new agEUR directly from the [Angle App](https://app.angle.money/) against your tokens
- swap ETH for agEUR on [Uniswap](https://app.uniswap.org)
- buy agEUR with credit card from one of our on-ramp partners like [Wert.io](https://widget.wert.io/01FPZ4G1VMZ67MGC83NADPB0F8/redirect/?commodity=agEUR&commodities=agEUR,agEUR%3Aethereum)

## Minting agEUR on Angle

### Approving tokens

To interact with Angle protocol, you will need to send an approval transaction or sign a permit for each token you use. You can learn more about approving tokens [here](app-faq/#why-do-i-need-to-approve-the-same-token-multiple-times).

![Approving tokens](../.gitbook/assets/approving-tokens.png)

### Minting agEUR

1. Go to [app.angle.money](https://app.angle.money/#/user/mint).
2. Make sure that you have ETH to pay for gas fees, as well as one of the tokens accepted as collateral.
3. Select the collateral you want to send, and the stablecoin you want to mint/receive.
   * Supported collaterals: DAI, USDC, FEI, FRAX
   * Available agTokens: agEUR
4. Approve your collateral. 
5. Mint your stablecoins against your tokens.

You now have agEUR that mirror the value of the EUR!

![Minting agEUR](../.gitbook/assets/mint-usdc-agEUR.png)

### Burning agEUR

If you want to get rid of your agEUR, you have a few options: 
- swap them against another token on [Uniswap](https://app.uniswap.org)
- burn agEUR against one of the available tokens from the [Angle App](https://app.angle.money/#/user/burn). 

Burning agTokens is a similar process than minting.

1. Click on the `Burn` tab.
2. Select how much agEUR you want to burn and the token you want to receive in exchange.
4. Click on `Burn` and confirm the transaction in your wallet. This will exchange your agEUR for the tokens you selected

![Burning agEUR](../.gitbook/assets/burn-agEUR-DAI.png)
