guides/veangle-guides/incentives.md, before:

---
description: Earning ANGLE rewards
---

# Earning ANGLE

To earn ANGLE distributed as part of the weekly emissions, users can deposit sanTokens, open long positions on the protocol with Perps, or deposit LP (liquidity providers) tokens.

You can find all the available pools in the [Earn page](https://app.angle.money/#/earn) of the Angle App.

After staking your tokens, you will begin accumulating ANGLE tokens.

## Claiming ANGLE

You have multiple options when claiming your ANGLE tokens:

* Claim from multiple Boosted and Perpetuals gauges in **one transaction** by clicking on the `Claim Rewards` button on the right. You will be able to select/unselect the gauges you want to claim rewards from. When using this modal, you can:
  * **`Claim ANGLE`**: this will claim your ANGLE rewards from all the selected gauges in one transaction.
  * **`Claim and Lock ANGLE`**: this will claim your ANGLE rewards from all the selected gauges in one transaction **and** lock them into your existing ANGLE lock. This will increase your veANGLE balance and won't affect your lock expiration date. _NB: this is only possible if you already have ANGLE locked. You can lock ANGLE_ [_here_](https://app.angle.money/#/lock)_._&#x20;

![](../../.gitbook/assets/claim-rewards-modal.png)

* Claim from a specific gauge by clicking on the `✨Claim` button in the modal below the input:

![](../../.gitbook/assets/claim-rewards-from-pool.png)

Commit message:

Changing rinkeby (#108)
* removing rinkeby references as well as improving the user guides to make it more readable for our users

* changing last user docs

guides/veangle-guides/incentives.md, after:

---
description: Earning ANGLE rewards
---

# Earning ANGLE

ANGLE tokens are issued every week and distributed to different stakeholders of the Angle ecosystem.

To take advantage of that, you can among other things [deposit sanTokens](https://app.angle.money/#/deposit), [open long positions](https://app.angle.money/#/perpetuals) on the protocol, or deposit LP (liquidity providers) tokens.

You can find all the available pools and farms in the [Earn page](https://app.angle.money/#/earn) of the app.

After staking your tokens or taking any action that gives you the rights to these tokens (like opening a perpetual), you will begin automatically accumulating ANGLE tokens.

## Claiming ANGLE

You have multiple options when claiming your ANGLE tokens:

- Claim from multiple Boosted and Perpetuals gauges in **one transaction** by clicking on the `Claim Rewards` button on the right. You will be able to select/unselect the gauges you want to claim rewards from. When using this modal, you can:
  - **`Claim ANGLE`**: this will claim your ANGLE rewards from all the selected gauges in one transaction.
  - **`Claim and Lock ANGLE`**: this will claim your ANGLE rewards from all the selected gauges in one transaction **and** lock them into your existing ANGLE lock. This will increase your veANGLE balance and won't affect your lock expiration date. _NB: this is only possible if you already have ANGLE locked. You can lock ANGLE_ [_here_](https://app.angle.money/#/lock)_._&#x20;

![Claim rewards modal](../../.gitbook/assets/claim-rewards-modal.png)

- Claim from a specific gauge by clicking on the `Claim` button in the modal below the input:

![Claim button](../../.gitbook/assets/claim-rewards-from-pool.png)
