guides/veangle-guides/voting-offchain.md, before:

---
description: How to participate to governance votes on Snapshot with veANGLE tokens
---

# Voting on Snapshot

veANGLE holders can create votes and vote on [Snapshot](https://snapshot.org/#/anglegovernance.eth) on existing governance votes.

## Voting on proposals

1. Go to the Angle Protocol [Snapshot](https://snapshot.org/#/anglegovernance.eth)
2. Connect yourself with your wallet that owns your veANGLE tokens
3. Choose the open proposals and then simply vote for the option of your choice. You can only vote on proposals that were created after your veANGLE balance got non null. And if your veANGLE balance increased during the span of a vote, then Snapshot considers that your balance is the one you had right before the start of the vote.

## Delegating voting power

Not all veANGLE holders feel the need to get involved in governance and vote on every proposal. While this is to be expected, it is better for the protocol that voting power remains in the hands of people interested, concerned, and involved in the future of the protocol. To that end, users have the possibility to **delegate** their voting power to other community members.

By doing this, delegators keep their tokens but transfer **all** their voting power to its delegate. Though delegating only a part of voting power is not possible, delegations can be removed at anytime. Users can delegate their veANGLE tokens at [snapshot.org/delegate](https://snapshot.org/#/delegate), by ticking "Limit delegation to a specific space" and specifying `anglegovernance.eth` as space name.

## Creating a proposal

To create a proposal on Snapshot:

1. Make sure that you have opened a discussion on [Angle governance forum](https://gov.angle.money) that it has been seen and commented by other community members.
2. Also make sure that you got feedback on the fact that your proposal is technically and easily implementable.
3. You then need to get at least 1000 veANGLE tokens on the wallet responsible for the proposal
4. When that is good, you can then create your proposal [on this page](https://snapshot.org/#/anglegovernance.eth). It's normal if you don't have a choice on the voting period and voting type.

Commit message:

Guides change (#124)
* improving guides of the Angle app

* changing docs

* adding a hint

* adding a hint

guides/veangle-guides/voting-offchain.md, after:

---
description: How to participate to governance votes on Snapshot with veANGLE tokens
---

# Voting on Snapshot

veANGLE holders can create votes and vote on [Snapshot](https://snapshot.org/#/anglegovernance.eth) on existing governance votes. The Angle App also features [a page](https://app.angle.money/#/vote) allowing users to vote on the same Snapshot votes.

## Voting on proposals

1. Go to the Angle Protocol [Snapshot space](https://snapshot.org/#/anglegovernance.eth) or on the [Voting page](https://app.angle.money/#/vote) of the Angle app.
2. Connect the wallet that owns your veANGLE tokens
3. Choose the open proposals and then simply vote for the option of your choice. You can only vote on proposals that were created after your veANGLE balance got non null. And if your veANGLE balance increased during the span of a vote, then Snapshot considers that your balance is the one you had right before the start of the vote.

{% hint style="info" %}
If you're voting on the Angle App, there may be a small delay between the moment at which you have signed the voting transaction and the moment at which you're seeing the output of your vote appear.
{% endhint %}

## Delegating voting power

Not all veANGLE holders feel the need to get involved in governance and vote on every proposal. While this is to be expected, it is better for the protocol that voting power remains in the hands of people interested, concerned, and involved in the future of the protocol. To that end, users have the possibility to **delegate** their voting power to other community members.

By doing this, delegators keep their tokens but transfer **all** their voting power to its delegate. Though delegating only a part of voting power is not possible, delegations can be removed at anytime. Users can delegate their veANGLE tokens at [snapshot.org/delegate](https://snapshot.org/#/delegate), by ticking "Limit delegation to a specific space" and specifying `anglegovernance.eth` as space name.

## Creating a proposal

To create a proposal on Snapshot:

1. Make sure that you have opened a discussion on [Angle governance forum](https://gov.angle.money) that it has been seen and commented by other community members.
2. Also make sure that you got feedback on the fact that your proposal is technically and easily implementable.
3. You then need to get at least 1000 veANGLE tokens on the wallet responsible for the proposal
4. When that is good, you can then create your proposal [on this page](https://snapshot.org/#/anglegovernance.eth). It's normal if you don't have a choice on the voting period and voting type.
