guides/veangle-guides/voting-gauges.md, before:

---
description: veANGLE guide about how to vote on gauges rewards
---

# Voting on Gauges

One key feature of veANGLE is its voting power to influence the distribution of token emissions as rewards across pools.

This happens by assigning weights of an address's voting power on the different gauges available. The process is explained in more details in the [gauges](../../governance/veANGLE/gauges.md) page.

![Gauges voting screen](../../.gitbook/assets/voting-screen.png)

## Allocating voting weights to gauges with veANGLE

To allocate their voting weights, users can go to [app.angle.money/gauge](https://app.angle.money/#/gauge). There, they need to select a gauge they want to allocate voting power to, choose the weight they want to allocate, and submit their transaction. This will need to be done for each gauge users want to allocate voting power to. Once this is done, users don’t need to do any other transactions the following weeks if they don’t want to change their votes.

However, it’s important to note that votes on each specific gauge can be changed only after 10 days. If they want to change their vote weights, users will need to decrease their votes on some gauges before increasing it on others.

Finally, if users’ veANGLE balances increase, they will have to allocate this new voting power on gauges manually if they want to.

Commit message:

removing rinkeby references as well as improving the user guides to make it more readable for our users

guides/veangle-guides/voting-gauges.md, after:

---
description: How to vote for gauges and influence ANGLE emissions
---

# Voting on Gauges

One key feature of veANGLE is its voting power to influence the distribution of token emissions as rewards across pools.

This happens by assigning weights of an address's voting power on the different gauges available. The way the gauge system is designed within Angle is explained in more details in the [gauges](../../governance/veANGLE/gauges.md) page.

{% hint style="info" %}
This gauge voting feature is reserved to users which own veANGLE tokens (as well as ETH to pay for the transaction fees).
{% endhint %}

## Allocating voting weights to gauges with veANGLE

Voting for gauges happens on the [gauges page](https://app.angle.money/#/gauge) of the app.

There, on the right side of the page, you need to select the gauges you want to allocate

![Gauges voting screen](../../.gitbook/assets/voting-screen.png)

## Changing weights

There, they need to select a gauge they want to allocate voting power to, choose the weight they want to allocate, and submit their transaction. This will need to be done for each gauge users want to allocate voting power to. Once this is done, users don’t need to do any other transactions the following weeks if they don’t want to change their votes.

However, it’s important to note that votes on each specific gauge can be changed only after 10 days. If they want to change their vote weights, users will need to decrease their votes on some gauges before increasing it on others.

Finally, if users’ veANGLE balances increase, they will have to allocate this new voting power on gauges manually if they want to.
