governance/veANGLE/lock-details.md, before:

---
description: Details about the veANGLE lock
---

# 🔒 veANGLE lock details

## Non-transferrable tokens

The first thing to keep in mind when locking ANGLE into veANGLE is that veANGLE are **non-transferrable by design**. Once an address owns veANGLE, it can't transfer or sell them in any way.

## Decreasing veANGLE balance

After an address starts owning veANGLE, its balance will decrease with time to reflect the lock time expiration.

## Formula

Depending on the lock time, a specific amount of veANGLE will be received from the ANGLE locked. The lock scale is as follows:

- 1 ANGLE locked 4 years → 1 veANGLE
- 1 ANGLE locked 2 years → 0.5 veANGLE
- 1 ANGLE locked 1 year → 0.25 veANGLE

The general formula to compute the veANGLE balance at any point in time:

$$
Q_{\texttt{veANGLE}} =
\frac{\texttt{lock time remaining in seconds}}{4\times365\times24\times3600}
\times Q_{\texttt{ANGLE locked}}
$$

For example, 12 ANGLE locked for 2 year and 8 months (with 30d/month) would give:

$$
Q_{\texttt{veANGLE}} =
\frac{(2\times12 + 8)_{m}
\times30_{d}\times24_{h}\times3600_s}{4\times365\times24\times3600}
\times 12
$$

$$
Q_{\texttt{veANGLE}} =
\frac{960}{1460} \times 12 =
7.8904
$$

As said above, the quantity of veANGLE decreases constantly with time to reflect the reduction in lock time (lock expiration), down to 0 at expiration. For example, two months after the initial lock, the previous address would have a veANGLE balance of:

$$
Q_{\texttt{veANGLE}} =
\frac{900}{1460} \times 12 =
7.3973
$$

Commit message:

adding references to other contracts

governance/veANGLE/lock-details.md, after:

---
description: Details about the veANGLE lock
---

# 🔒 veANGLE lock details

## Non-transferrable tokens

The first thing to keep in mind when locking ANGLE into veANGLE is that veANGLE are **non-transferrable by design**. Once an address owns veANGLE, it can't transfer or sell them in any way.

## Decreasing veANGLE balance

After an address starts owning veANGLE, its balance will decrease with time to reflect the lock time expiration.

### Formula

Depending on the lock time, a specific amount of veANGLE will be received from the ANGLE locked. The lock scale is as follows:

- 1 ANGLE locked 4 years → 1 veANGLE
- 1 ANGLE locked 2 years → 0.5 veANGLE
- 1 ANGLE locked 1 year → 0.25 veANGLE

The general formula to compute the veANGLE balance at any point in time is:

$$
Q_{\texttt{veANGLE}} =
\frac{\texttt{lock time remaining in seconds}}{4\times365\times24\times3600}
\times Q_{\texttt{ANGLE locked}}
$$

Once tokens have been locked, it is however possible to extend the lock time and hence increase the veANGLE balance.

### Example

For example, 12 ANGLE locked for 2 year and 8 months (with 30d/month) would give:

$$
Q_{\texttt{veANGLE}} =
\frac{(2\times12 + 8)_{m}
\times30_{d}\times24_{h}\times3600_s}{4\times365\times24\times3600}
\times 12
$$

$$
Q_{\texttt{veANGLE}} =
\frac{960}{1460} \times 12 =
7.8904
$$

As detailed above, the quantity of veANGLE decreases constantly with time to reflect the reduction in lock time (lock expiration), down to 0 at expiration. For example, two months after the initial lock, the previous address would have a veANGLE balance of:

$$
Q_{\texttt{veANGLE}} =
\frac{900}{1460} \times 12 =
7.3973
$$

## veANGLE Governance Whitelisting

Like in Curve and Frax systems, smart contracts & DAOs require whitelisting by governance to stake for veANGLE. Only externally owned accounts and normal user wallets can directly call the veANGLE stake locking function.

In order to build veANGLE functionality into your protocol, begin the governance process with the ANGLE community in the [governance forum](https://gov.angle.money) by submitting a whitelisting proposal.
